---
title: Mission
permalink: "/mission/"
layout: mission
---

The project, being interdisciplinary, can count on different methodological challenges. In so far, it proposes the experimental use of innovative technologies and methods in the fields of Mathematics, Urban Studies, and Management, Service Design  in order to develop highly complex and integrated solutions to the problems identified so far. In detail it aims at testing:
- the experimental use of data grabbing in producing automatic mobility maps able to describe complex mobility patterns in contemporary cities.
- the development of new Big Data Analytics (i.e., network analysis tools for the statistical investigation of strongly non-Euclidean complex data in the field of dynamical weighted directional multi-layer networks)
- the co-design of innovative private/public formal/informal mobility models and services at the corner with innovative mobility policies.
- the development of business model and a policy approach compatible with the local context, a field almost neglected.

From the first two perspectives, the mathematical synthesis of mobility as a dynamical weighted directional multi-layer network opens the way for a thorough and scalable statistical investigation of complex mobility patterns. Just to mention some possible use of the outputs of the analysis (WP2): identification of routes on the network into which to frame the native mobility offer (by means of optimization algorithms for solving the travelling salesman problem); identification of mobility communities to introduce virtuous vehicle sharing practices (by means of community detection algorithms); identification of hubs where to locate accessible public services or of bottlenecks that can trigger a systemic crisis of the network (by means of node and edge centrality analysis). The output of WP2 will provide citizens, informal mobility providers, and institutional actors with a detailed picture of the mobility landscape enlightening possible high-impact low-cost points of intervention in a perspective which is fully bottom-up (thus building on informal mobility infrastructure) and fully data-driven (and thus readily exportable in other geographical contexts).

From the second two perspectives, the project activities are designed upon the a co-creation approach.  Going beyond an established  tradition of deliberative democracy approaches, based on the idea of engagement of actors in a deliberative process, the co-creation approach aims at disclosing a promising bridge between the micro-scale of decision and the mechanisms of urban governance. This bridge is represented by the construction of collaborative and creative environments where processes of smart service co-design take place through dialogic interaction with and among actors within a situated and cultural-specific frame.  In this respect, in particular  WP3, WP4, WP5 activities will be especially based on an approach to “Service design” as a “user-centered, participatory practice, based on the adoption of co-design methods to involve prospective users in the development of solutions” and in collaboration with local service providers. The team will invest in creating the conditions for generating collaborative and creative environments, involving the local stakeholders (Chapas Association, The Great Metropolitan Authority, association of end-users, experts) in the development of solutions able to improve the quality and sustainability of the informal sector services and its role in Maputo mobility.
